[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Tapping as a process that we
know now was discovered right
around 1980 by a psychologist
called Roger Callahan.
Roger was a
traditional therapist
and working with clients
in his home office.
And he had a really
unique experience,
it was sort of like that
eureka, light bulb moment.
So Roger had a client
by name of Mary,
and she had a
severe water phobia.
You know, thinking about fear
of flying and phobias before,
so what happened?
Mary had some sort of experience
that said water is dangerous.
Now this was an out and
out phobia, so not just
swimming or the ocean.
It was drinking water, showers.
It was just like full-on
panic attack, sweating.
So imagine walking around
every day with a water phobia.
It's not the
easiest thing to do.
And she had been working with
Dr. Callahan for about a year.
He was doing traditional
therapy methods,
so he would do
exposure therapy--
hey, let's look at the pool.
What do you feel
when you look at it?
Try to relax as you
look at the pool.
Try to desensitize the
body to that experience.
She found the whole
thing so stressful.
Just looking at the pool,
she'd get migraines.
It was like everything
was just not working.
And as any good therapist
or psychologist would feel,
he was frustrated.
It's like, you want
to help people.
That's why you're there.
And he had an experience where
Mary came one day for a session
and she said, when
I look at the pool,
I just get butterflies
in my stomach.
And he'd been reading
about the Chinese meridian
system in the body and the fact
that the stomach meridian ends
underneath the eye, and that you
can tap to activate meridians.
So on a whim in that
moment, he said,
try tapping underneath your eye.
So she did so for 30
seconds, or a minute,
and looked at the water,
and the phobia was gone.
She was blown away.
I mean, he was blown away.
Like, what happened
in that moment?
How could decades of
this fear and anxiety--
something happened to
calm that amygdala,
to tell the body
that it was safe.
Potentially, something
with the meridian system
that we're learning
more about, but we
don't have the concrete
data that we need for that.
But something happened
in that moment
that calmed that water phobia.
And so you can imagine
he was excited.
He started looking at the
different meridians of the body
and developed a
process called TFT,
which is Thought Field Therapy.
It's still around today and
practiced by a lot of people.
And what TFT does for different
emotions and different things
you have going on, you have a
different sequence of tapping.
Gary Craig was one of
Roger Callahan's students,
and he took the TFT process
and said, this is great.
But it's hard to remember,
hard to implement,
hard to execute,
so let's just tap
through all the points, the
same points, every single time.
He had a couple of innovations,
codified the system,
then put out in the world.
And that's what I
learned, personally.
That's the version
of what I use today.
EFT is sort of-- if we think
of EFT as a specific technique
and tapping as the
general process.
So like meditation--
there's vipassana meditation
and then there's
general meditation,
and there's guided
meditation and there's
this, that, and the other.
So tapping, you'll
find practitioners
doing different forms of it,
different approaches, sometimes
different points--
that's the general thing.
EFT is the specific thing.
So since 1980, this
techniques been
out there growing steadily,
being shared steadily,
being used by
therapists and doctors
and psychologists
when they saw results.
And more than
anything, being used
by individual people
who say, oh wow,
I can use this to
change my life.
What's really happened
in the last five years
or so, which I'm very excited
about, is the research
is starting to come in.
Now it's always like,
why does it take so long?
I mean, you could talk
about funding and the money
available.
But, like, meditation is
the newest, hottest thing
in the last decade,
and it's obviously
been around for a
long time, so a time
and a place for everything.
But at this point, there's over
100 different research studies
on EFT, more growing every
single day, on everything
from anxiety to PTSD
studies with veterans.
We at The Tapping Solution
have done a lot of work
with veterans and
supporting that work.
And there's been research
showing that people coming back
from war, people
affected with PTSD
can do the tapping process,
preferably with a trained
practitioner when it's the more
difficult things, to change
that PTSD, to turn off
that fight or flight
and to bring the body back
in a state of balance.
But to me, what's so
exciting about tapping
is that you can just do it.
The basics are so easy to learn.
You can teach it to your kids.
You can show it to a loved
one and have an experience.
And for 99% of the people, just
the basic points are great.
[MUSIC PLAYING]